
Knowledge check

This section contains questions for you to check your understanding of this lesson. If you’re having trouble answering the questions below on your own, review the material above to find the answer.

    How do you create several grid tracks of the same size without manually typing each one out?

        repeat(<number_of_tracks>, <size>)

    What is the difference between a static and dynamic size value?

        Dynamic size values change depending on the size of elements, the viewport and screen.

        Static values remain the same regardless and make for a less responsive website when
        overused.

    How can you assign a grid track a flexible value that changes depending on the remaining space available in the grid?

        Use a fractional unit (fr), 1fr for example.

    How can you assign grid tracks an uneven distribution of the remaining space in a grid?

        grid-column: 2 / 4;
        
        and/or

        grid-row: 1 / 5;

    Which CSS functions will return the smallest or largest value supplied to them?

        min() will return the smallest value of all the values passed in.

        max()  will return the largest.

    Which CSS Grid-only function allows you to supply a minimum and maximum track size that is calculated in realtime?

        minmax(min, max)

    Which global CSS function allows you to supply a minimum, ideal, and maximum value that is calculated in realtime?

        clamp(min, ideal, max)

    What attribute of repeat() can be used to fill in as many grid tracks as possible, given certain constraints?

        repeat(auto-fit) and repeat(auto-fill)

    What is the difference between auto-fit and auto-fill?

        They both return the largest positive integer without the grid items overflowing
        their container.

        When the grid is expanded to a size where another grid item could fit, but there
        aren't any left, auto-fit will keep the grid items at their max size.

        auto-fill, the grid items will snap back down to their min size once the space becomes
        available to add another grid item, even if there isn't one to be rendered. They
        will continue their pattern of growing to max and snapping back to their min as the
        grid expands and more room becomes available to add new grid tracks.

